We present RoadMapping, a full-likelihood dynamical modelling machinery that aims to recover the Milky Way's (MW) gravitational potential from large samples of stars in the Galactic disk. RoadMapping models the observed positions and velocities of stars with a parametrized, three-integral distribution function (DF) in a parametrized axisymmetric potential. We create and analyse a large suite of mock data sets and develop qualitative "rules of thumb" how data, model and machinery affect constraints on the potential and DF most. Overall, we find that the potential can be reliably recovered with RoadMapping, even if the model assumptions are slightly wrong. RoadMapping gives constraints of high precision (i) for large sample sizes, (ii) for survey volumes of large radial and vertical coverage, and (iii) as long as the proper motion uncertainties are well known and even as large as 5 mas/yr. Unbiased potential estimates are ensured, (i) for small to moderate misjudgements of the spatial selection function, (ii) if distances are known only to within 10%, and (iii) if proper motion uncertainties are known within 10%. Modest systematic differences between the true and best-fit model DF are inconsequential. When defining sub-populations by binning stars according to their chemical abundances, finite bin sizes and abundance errors do not affect the modelling as long as the DF parameters of neighbouring bins do not differ by more than 20%. While hotter populations are less affected by pollution and misjudgements of the proper motion uncertainty, cooler populations recover the Galactic rotation curve more reliably. If the MW's true gravitational potential is not included in the assumed family of parametrized model potentials, we can - at least in the axisymmetric case - still find a potential that robustly approximates the potential within the limitations of the model. Challenges are the rapidly increasing computational costs for high precision likelihood evaluations required for large sample sizes. Overall, RoadMapping is well suited to making precise new measurements of the MW's potential with data from the 2017 Gaia release.
